China will press ahead on a steady path toward achieving socialist modernization by 2035, a senior official said on Friday, as the country looks to consolidate its progress and lay a solid foundation for long-term national development.

Han Wenxiu, executive deputy director of the Office of the Central Committee for Financial and Economic Affairs, made the remarks at a news conference held by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.

Han said that realizing socialist modernization is a gradual and evolving process. He described the upcoming 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-30) period as a pivotal stage in this process. With only 10 years left to reach the goal, the next five years will be crucial in consolidating foundations and driving comprehensive progress. "How well the first five years go will determine the initiative we hold for the years that follow," Han said.

Han emphasized the need to approach the next phase of development with a strong sense of urgency and purpose. China, he said, must consolidate its strengths, tackle bottlenecks, and strengthen weak links to make major breakthroughs in advancing Chinese-style modernization. Efforts will focus on improving the quality and efficiency of growth, fostering new quality productive forces, upgrading both supply and demand structures, and promoting coordinated economic and social development.

He also underscored the importance of accelerating the green transformation of the economy, developing a modern energy system, and strengthening the interplay between domestic and international markets to ensure stability and resilience.

"In the face of shifting global dynamics and rising public expectations, the key is to stay focused on doing our own work well," Han said.

China, he added, will continue to promote high-quality development, deepen reform, and expand high-level opening-up. "With the certainty of our own high-quality growth, we can better respond to external uncertainties and write new chapters in China's long-term stability and sustained progress."